# Accelerated Cure Data Analysis
#### By: MaryGrace Kane, Alexis Emerson, Sarah Braverman, Charlotte Burbridge, and Ashley Shell
##### Our data science class will be cleaning and visualizing patient data provided by the Accelerated Cure Project, a non-profit organization that aims to accelerate MS research to cure MS and improve quality of life for those suffering from the disease. Our data is derrived from the Initial Visit Case Report Form that all patients in association with the project fill out upon their first visit. In particular, our class will be taking a deep dive into the demographics, ethnicity, and smoking sections of the patient data. 
> "Multiple Sclerosis (MS) is a chronic and disabling disease of the central nervous system. It's generally diagnosed between 20 and 40 (with outliers, of course) and 2/3rds of those diagnosed are women. It's a complex disease with unknown causes and no cure to date. There's some indication of a genetic predisposition but then there are one or more environmental triggers that are believed to cause the disease. MS is heterogenous in presentation and symptoms can vary widely but anything that is affected by the central nervous system (upper and lower extremity mobility, vision, cognition, pain, fatigue, bowel, bladder, etc.) can be impacted. Most people are diagnosed with relapsing-remitting (where they have flares of symptoms but then get better) and they ultimately progress to secondary progressive over the course of the disease (where they no longer get 100% better between flares and accrue disability). Some people are diagnosed with primary progressive which means they accrue disability from the outset. We created the Repository to provide researchers with the resources (blood samples and data) they need to determine the causes of MS so it could be cured. That's why the Repository data set is so focused on the history of a person's life -- what is their family history (of MS and other diseases)? What things have they been exposed to (chemicals, environments, etc) through their residential and job histories? How much sunlight have they been exposed to (low levels of vitamin D are considered a risk factor)? How much smoke have they been exposed to (ditto), etc? We're hopeful that by studying the lives and exposures of enough people with MS, we'll find the trigger or triggers that cause it." - Sara Loud, CEO Accelerated Cure Project
